xx nan ns. rra. A. 3. [Η.

lection of interlinear versions, prayers, confessions, and other
treatises. The authorities of the great publio librarios are not,
so far as Ι know, keeping registers of the MSS. published or
transoribed. The work in arreni· is of course enormous3
but an invented Wanley to begin with—to whioh the present
is a humhle contribution-would he an invaluable boon to
stndents of the Oldest English, and would be a foundation
for librarians to work upon. I therefore prooeed to give notes
of where the various pieoes in the MS. Tiberius A.3 are
printed, if they have been edited at all; and Ι hope that all
who have ever turned over the leaves of MSS. to hunt for
unpnblished matter, will be glad of my attempt; especially
those who have diligently copied ont page after page, only
to find that this had been already done hy some one else.
Since Wanley's time the pagination of the MS. has been
slightly altered, and my statements refer to this new
pagination.

That some one will take this work up for all MSS. is
a consummation devoutly to he wished.

The greater part of the MS. was eopied out by J nnius
(see below, p. xxxii, on the valne of these transcriptions)‚
and his copies are kept in the Bodleian Library, at Oxford.
It is to the various MSS. of this collection that the words
‘ MS. J unins' (infra) refer.

Conana of roe MS. itherius- A. 3.

No.l(fo. 3). Regnlaris Concordia Anglioae Nationis
Monaohorum Sanotimonialiumque.

MSS. J un. 52. 109 (now=No. 46). Wanley, pp. 92 and 99. VII.

Of this, the Latin text has been printed in full at least twice: (a) in R. P.
Olern. Reyneri Apostolatus Benedictinorum, and (h) in the later editions
of the Monastieon Anglioanum, see edd. 1817. 1846, I, p. xxvii. The
Anglo-Saxon text hasnever been printed in full. Resides the smaller

quotations given froin it by Wanley himself, other extraots have been put
in type several times. Selden printed the prologue and the greater part
of the epilogue iu his notes to Eadmer. See his Works, ed. 1726. ΙΙ
(tomus 2), pp. 1612-1621 (see MS. J nnius, 18 ; Wanley, p. 103). senen,
in aoeordanoe with the usage of his time, ‘edits’1 the MS.. and though
he does not mention the MS. from which his text is taken, it is highly
prohahle that our MS. is the one. Th. Wright, in his Biographia Litt.

¹ See Skeat, Prefaoe to the Gospel of S. Matthew, p. viii.

 

