xxxii roaros urraosrwonrnr. [rv.

appears to enjoy the reputation of being* a faithful copyist,
but when collating his copy of the so-called ‘Regulae
S. Fulgentii' (above, p. xxiv) with the MS„ 1 obser-ved that
this reputation was entirely unfounded 1. He adds words not
in his MSS. He leaves out words found in his original,
or transposes them. He does not distinguish between '6 and
b, which he consequently uses indiscriminately2. He en-
tirely disregards the punctuation of the MS„ and he adds
numbers of chayters after his own pleasrue or notions of how
they ought to have been. Lastly, he corrects his text without
giving the reading of the MS.

The convent to which this MS. belonged is not known.
Nor is there any author on whom we have reason to father
our version. The likelihood indeed is that this interlinear
version yrcdoclfy developed, so that it cannot be assigned to
any one person.

The object of this edition is to furnish the student with a
text as it is found in the manuscript, with all its 1161661111-
perfectione, and absurdities¹ 1 am of opinion that however
stupidly a scribe may have mangled his original, the reading
of the MS. is still the only thing of which we are sure. Ι
have tampered so little with the MS. that I have left
even the most palpable errors unchanged3 here, however,
1 have followed the example set by former editors, and
starred the forms which without doubt are merely clerical
errors. It need hardly be said that 1 should not have
followed this plan, were this text destined for the use of
those desirous of learning the rudiments of Anglo-Saxon.
Moreoven if the present were the only version extant, 1 might
have taken into consideration the wants of those students who
wished 16 read this text for the ‘realia' and 1 should thus

¹ See H. Sweet, Introduction 16 Gregcry's Pastoral Care, p. xix, whose sole
blame is that Junius ‘sometimes swcrved from the path of literal accuracy in
a few unimportant particulas! See, cn the contrary, anitza, Zeitscbrift fiir
Deutsches Altertum, 31, 2; Erech, Fragment, etc, (supra, p. xxi), p. 5.
MacLean⁵ Anglia, 6. 448.

² Itis generally assumed that the scribes themselves did not distinguish
between the 11 and b, and used 1116111 prorniscuou ly. But if even any dis-
tinction is to be found,'edit0rs should take care not to obscure this find by not
6111611116,Γ strictly to the writing of the MSS.

 

