v] rAnrrnnrsnrror. lv

oflr (Sievers, d 207) 3 buo 'uhab ehe disfinobion was nob always
kepf up, bha‘e is, ‘ohah she distineeion was evidently 'eoo
‹lelicahe fo be palpable to fhe unhrained ear, is clear from ‘ohe
lise of words above, b 59, where bhe l· occurs before vowels
originally palafal as well as hhose originally girhhnral. Bur
however rcugh and obbnse an ear may be, the disfinchion be*
hweenl: and try' must be sure bo be heard and bo find expression
consissenffly. How hhen was ih afberwards expressed? By
she adding of la ‘no 'ohe palafal 03 bur this did no'o happen
nnbil fhe beginning of fhe Middle English period (Koch,
ᾧ 172 ff). I do noe believe enar hhe eo of 'ohe Norrhumbrian
docurnenfs represenbs frj, bue I wish ho reserve my judgmenf
nnbil ‘che grammar cf ihese hexbs which may be expeched from

¹ the hands of Professor Cook, has placed before ns ohe necessary
maferial on 'ohis subjeci.

ᾧ 63. We may now safely conclude ohan 'ohe evidence in

Anglo-Saxon does noh do more nhan prove chan pala-hal στί]
ab ‘ohe nemost, noh ye‘o ry See also on bhis subject ‘ohe
remarks of ¹Professor March, Englische Studien, I. 315,
- Hence ir is chat I have leff bhe above—menfioned forms
frede, ycferlaelemzc, ere, unsnarred, since bhey are jus‘o as likely
fo represenb bhe palahal c, as would be done by nnis symbol
insen} and if is probably owing ho hhis confusion of c ando
ehar- we find such forms as wico, recenso, cp. supra, p 49.

{r 64. A word mnsf be said abone bhe c-epenfhesis, alhhongh,
of ehis phenomencn proper, l have nob found an instance in
our herb. Traces of if may, however, be perhaps discovered.
For insbances of i'o, see Sievers, ᾧ 2103 (losijn, Alfwesbs.
gramm. Ι, ᾧ 131, ie. Sweet, Pasforal Care, p. 482 f.;
Zeuner‚ Die Sprachc- des Kenhisohen Psalfersd 39 ς Diefer‚
Sprache und Mundarb der alfeshen Englischen Denkmffler,
§45 p. 633 Reimann Die Spraehe der rrieeelkeneisohen
Evangelien‚ ’ξ 28, snb 3; Schroer, Die lh'infeney-Version der
R. S. B„ p. xxvii, eho.

§65 When is ohe nafure of this epenfhesis, ie. whab is
here bhe sonnd of so? Ι think ohan e muse be supposed to
indicabo ene change of a (nob only of oc as Zenner has ie,
norea on p, 80) into Johe pclclal sibilans, and I am happy

 

