CONTENTS.

that, publioly. If he do not then mend, he shall he exeom-
municated, and lastly, be subjeeted to corporal punishment

Oflnrrnss XXIV. The degree of punishment is to be in accordauee nith
the gravity of the gutlt. For instance, for very light offences

· 5

the culprit is deprived only of the right of sitting at table, etc. . ¹

Gnarum XXV. The brother who is guilty of a graver fault, must be

excluded both from the table and from the oratory. No one .

passing him may ask a hlessing on his head or on his food .

Gnnrrnn XXVI. These that presume to have any intercourse whatever
with an excommunicated brother, should suffer the same ex-
communication

Cnnrrnn XXVII. The Abbot, whose duty it is more to look after
wcak souls than to tyrannise over strong, should remomber the
example of the Good Shepherd, and imitate it . . . .

OnArrnn XXVIII. When a brother has been rebuhed repeatedly, when
he has suffered the penalty of excommnnication and corporal
punishment, when the Abhot's and the brethren’s prayers have
been of no avail, then, and not· until then, let the Abhot act
upon the Apostles precept: ‘Put away the evil one from among
yourselves,’ and expel him

Onnrrnn XXIX. A brother who hasbeen expelled the monastery, should

be allowed to return into the lowest place if he promises to mend,
and this for three umes3 after that, however, no return should

be possible
CHAPrnR XXX. Young boys should he rebulred in a different manner,

for they do not see the gravity of the penalty os exeommunica-
tion. Let them bepunishedbyfasting, orthe rod . . .

CHAPnnlt XXXI. On the qualities of the Uellarer. He must be a wise,
temperate, and (κά-18111191 man, and must, above all, be
humble. If a brother nslzs of him what he cannot give, let him
not laugh at the brother, but in all hnmility refuse n. If the
congregation be a large one, helpers should be given him . .

Cnnrrnn XXXII. The use of the property of the monastery is to be
entrusted hy the Abbot to monks ou whose qualities he can
depend. A register should be kept by the Abbot, in order to see

ἱ that he gete back all that he gives ......

Cniirrhn XXXIII. The monhs are not to give anything away, or get any
¹ property, except with the consent of the Abbot. Even their
own will, or their own body, is not in their power. An things

Q„

must he common unto all ........

ἡκ... ‚mm—‘⁴⁶⁰'

Onarrnu XXXIV. Every one must receive the necessities of life in
ancordance with his wants. This is not meant to advocate
favouritism, but merely consideration for the infirmities of the
weah. On no account should complaints be heard . .

59

63

.64

 

