liv Arene-eruor ranerrnrsarrow. [v.

However strange ih may be rheu vhe auhhor of the ‘ Grund-
zr'ige der Phonehilz’ muse have here made lhe slip of eon-
founding palalalieahion wilh ilas consequence, assibilahion,
’ 'ohe face is proved by referring ho p. 62 oi dhe-'ehird edihion
of hhe Grundm'ige, where a eorrech shaiemenh is given. Bur
ohe words quoted above still siand in Jelie A.-s. grammar, and
ohe wrong nohion there expresscd, pervadee ‘ohe whole 'oreab-
menb of hhe c.

§62 Lei us examine ohe fache on which Sierers’e liheory
isbosed. They are:-

(1) The transihion of orl-aedui inho oraculo, afherwards
orecvrl, ordceard.
(a) Thelransibion of steina inhofiee(e)ao.

Now hhe inierohange of guihural e and l, i. e. of hhe voice-
less guhbural and denual shops, is no manner of wonder 3 and
as such, ohe manner mighh be explained wihhoub more ad013
bun there is more which lende bo explain ohe change. A
palahal e, as in A.-S. rice, before having ahhained 'ohe present
stage of pronunciahion—-assibilahion io reali in ricla-musi
have passed bhrough ohe ry· ehage-ie. exac‘dy hhrough ohe
place where 'vhe ly (i. e. ij) of oraffleard muel] have been formed.
No wonder bhen, uhab t†palalal vowelS, or raiher t†palahal
semi-vowelsJ should be confused io erviliae wieh o÷palanal
vowele, ie. semi-vowels. Hence ‘vhe transition of ormena
into erectori, Hence possiblr also hhe form secema by bhe
side of felino, alhhongh hhe possibilily of iwo distinch verbs
being apparenhly merged inho one is nol ercluded2. Thus
‘rhen l believe with Sievae, hha‘o ‹raa-d proves a pronuncia-
hion oran-(l, bur no more. Ι shall now examine hhe re-
maining grounds againsb rhie suppoeinion. The o originally
eufficed because, as is very likelr (Siev., d 206), palabalisa-
hicn is an Anglo-Saron phenomenon. Bne when hhe palahals
began ho deveIope, d· was somehimes used ho denote ‘ohe
guhhural sound. This ae leaenis very probably lhe meaning

the middle Latin meroem. if c hod rhen been teau, hhe scribe would nol hove
’ hod reeourse to the unusual ta lo express ahie seond, lheu so ahin to thav
of e.

¹ See ruod. Languagc Neres H. 222, 111, 126, 192,

² Whence cloes Bosworffifflohm gel his preherite, follere?

 

