l
i

rnrnonUcrron

-.,,.-

y Ι. Onrnrnrs or nnn Hrsroar or Bannnrcrrrrsn nr

l

ENGLAND UNTIL THE REFORMATION.

χ an Latin conveni rnle, known under che name of che
,¹ ‘nure of S. Bauer, pras wrilhen hy chat Saint abone the year
j516 nn1 Sainc Benedict was nol che firsh who found ic
i necessary to lay down rnles for monks co live by. He wrote

only for chose ‘qui regulas niyris onerandis edidernnh' (ie.
hh‘ose 'chao were afterwards called Black Frisiis, and Bene-
diclines). Dngdale‚ on ohe page cited below, enumerahes some
six and more fachers who were t-he authors of Rules. Of
these we may especially meniion S. Basilius, and refer Jche
reader no page 118² infra, where Benediecus of Nursia
himself speaks of the Regula sanclis pal-ris nos’cri Basilii,
as ‘bene vivencium ei oboedientium monachorum insiilnca
virtulum? s

According to hhe commonly accepied idea, Pope Gregory
che Greas introduced Benefflctinism, along airh Chrishianiiy,
inlo England in the year 596, when Augustino, prior of the
Monascery of S. Andrew ai Rome, carne across wich several

¹ See Dugdale's lllonasticon, edi 181 '7 and 1846, Ι, p. xxiii. S. Benedictus paler
noster . . . . regulam monachorum edidis cirea annum Christi 516.

²1 here gire the translation from the Durharn Ms„ Bb. 1. 6 (sce
Wanley‚ p. 298), a collalion of which was not given by Professor Schro'er:

‘Eae swylce yaera haligra faedera lif. 7 heora drohtnunga. 7 se regal ures hagan
iader basilii hwaet is hit elles butan ge lirnbrnoga haligra manna. 7 &reta

mnneca 1) (read pe) wel 7 rihle libbaoff gehersume synd! See A. Schriien ,

Die Angelsi'rchsischen Prosahearheitnngen der Benediktinerregel, Kassel,
1885-1888, p. {35 I may here thankfully mention the service rendered nie
by the Rev. Canon D. GreenivelL Librarian to the Dean and Chapter of
Durham Gathedral, who, on my applying for the loan of the MS„ volunteered
to transcribe the whole of the Bcn. Rule contained in ic, and who, assistcd
by the Rev. J. T. Fowler, librarian co the Universiiy of Durharn, did so
entirely as ‘a lahonr of lore! Les ine here public-ly lhank the reverend
gentlernen for this extraordinary lrindness¹

 

