OONTENTS.

--44-.-

INTRODUG'HON.

PAGE

’ μ SECHON Ι, Outliues of lhe History of Benedictinism ln Englnnd until

the Reformauon

Ἰ ’ saonen Π. Bibliography of lhe various treolises, found in the Oottonlan

⁴MS.TiberiusA.3.. . . , . . . . x³x

s snon1on111.uhennintext. Nineheeuhh-oentnryedlhions. Munner

of ediling .......... xxvi

, SEOTION IV, The English lexl. Manner of edioing. The ‘Paving

Letters ' 1 .......... xxx

Somou V. TheLnnguogeoflhelexl. Orude-forms ‘Merographye
Evidence of ohe Latin text. English sounds. English in-
flections .......... xxxviii

TEXT.

ι Tus Puonooun. It contains o hortatory sermon, admonishing the monks
to proy to the Lord for perstatim, to be up ond doing, to sear
'ohe Lord, to wolk in His pnths, ancl to beor. in mind thau, like
every beginning, the finding of the way to salvation is diffioult

“ LATIN ΗΕΓ OF OHAPTERS
« ΟΗΑΡΤΕΒ 1. There are four classes of mouks. Coenobihes, i, e. those who

fight the battle of life under a Rule or on Aubot. The ancho-
ffies, who fight alone against the weoknesses of the flesh and
their sinful thoughts. The Sarobohes, o very bod class: they Ἰ
follow the dictales of their desires5 whnh they wish to (lo,
they call o holy nom whofi lhey do noh like, they say is not
allowed. “ The Gyrovogh who roam aboul the country, eud who,
addioted to the pleasures of the stomeoh and the body, are even
ν worse than the Snrnboites

  ΟΗΛΡΤΕΕ Π. The Abboo who is worlhy to relgn over the monastery

mush always remember ‘cheb he represen‘os Chrish¹ He muso noh
tenoh onything buo the preoephs of ohe Lotd. He is responsible
for all that happens in his fionk, aud must set n good example in
everything. Thero should be no distinolion of persons in the
monastery, and, above au, one of noble birth should hove no
privilege over n meninl. The Abboo must always be aurare of
the difficulty of his onsk, ond bear in mind that the more im-
portuno ure the things enbrusted to his core, the greuher are his
. responsihilities iflfflssffihhllfflfes ond worldly considerahions

μνη· -ι-ψω,

shouldnoo distraoo himfrom his serious worha. . . . 11

,,,,,,,,,,, , ,ΛΜ-Ἃ, ,.

¹ These showing the ordor or sequence of the A.-Saxon words iu construing

th? {hl-lhos n word put for 'ohe whole of it, ns pro for pecoroso.

 

