CONTENTS.

i Cunrrsu LVIII. No easyentranceinto the Order is to be granted toa

new comer. He must prove himself worthy of being received,
by very great patience and humility. He must be diligently
watched. The Rule mnst be read to him once, and then again,
and once more, aiter long intervals. If he still persevera he
must make the promise of stabilIty, moral conversios, and

xiii

Pseu

obedience,0rallyandinwriting. All hispropertyis to be given -

up to the monastery, aud he *must exchauge his garments for

the monastic dress ......... “

'enarras LIX. Noblemen who offer their sons, should make a written
promise that they will never give them anything. They are
allowed, however, tc make a gift to the monastery of whatever
they please. The poor simply offer their sons before witnesses

= CHAPuhR LX. If a priest should wish to dwell in the monastery, he
can do so, under condition that he submit to the Rulc. No
preference is to be given to him over any of the brethren . .

(luiturus LXI. Pilgrlms should be received for as long as they like.
If they find fault with any arrangement of the monastery,
let the Abbct weigh their words well. If they he of evil
manners, let them be asked to depart. The Abbot must not
receive an inmate from another monastery without his Abbot‘s

consent ........... ,

eulmen LXII. The monk who has been chosen by the Abbct to be
ordained a priest‚ should abstain from feeling pride, and except
when officiating at the altar, should keep in the ordinary place
which is his by order oi entrance into the monastery .

enarras LXIII. Allmust keepto the place appointed to them. Age is
here never a consideration, only order of entrance, special
merit, or the ruling of the Abbot, whose appointrnents should
be just, and give no cause for complaint. The brethren are to
call one another by the revorential names of Frater, Nocens.
The younger brother must always ask a blessing of the elder .

Cunerum LXIV. The Abbot should be elected unanimously, or hythe
more wholesome ccunsel of part of the community. If it
comesto the knowledge of any one that a bad Abbot has been
chosen anywhere, let the Bishop appoint a worthy substitute.
In all points the Abbot must be a good man. He must remember
that he has one day tc render account of his management, and
must bear in mInd that his task is tc benefit the monks rather
than to be theIr head ........

German LXV. Scandals, arising through the appointment oi a Provmt,
should he avoided. The Provost must not think that he is not
more subject to the Abbot, after he has been ordained by him.
The first four times the Provost is tc be admonished, if refractcry.
The fifth time he must be deposed ......

106

109

 

