xvi nrsronr on nnunnrorrnrsru. [r. ¹

other Benedictine monks¹. Hook adds that ‘Before Dun- r
stan's time we may doubt the existence anywhere in England f
of the Benedictine Rule in its completeness’ Lingard² ⁵
argues against this. According to this learned historiari, 1³
Benedictine writers have unsnccessfully tried to establish and
maintain that S. Gregory was a Benedictine himself. According ¹
to him, it was not until Wilfrid’s time (latter half of the seventh
century) that the monks of Britain got acquainted with the ¹
Rule of S. Benedict. Bo this as it rnay³‚ all are agreed in'
attributing a high character and a great authority to the
Rnle in England when once introduced.

A few notes on the fate of the Benedictines in England
may be convenient to the render. Dugdale in his great
collection of materials for the study of Monasticism in England,
says&—

‘ Tres autem apud nos celebres fuerunt monachismi veteris reformationes. . . .
Altera snb Dnnstano fnit7 in oonsilio Wintonicnsi anno 965 regnante Edgaro,
magnificentissimo coenobiorum instauratore. Tuneprhnum monachispraescripta

fuit constitutio generalis tam cx Benedicti Regula quam ex veteribus con-
suetudinibus contexta qnae dieta est chularis Concordia Anglieae nationis ⁵.'

1f this ‘Regularis Concordia’ is not Dunstan’s, it owes its
origin at least to his mind, which pervadas the time in which
he lived. His was the age of the revival of monasticism.
It is pensans mind that speaks through Eadgar's mouth
when the latter prompts Aethelwold to a translation of the
Benedictine Ruless. What Dunstan aimed at, was to lead
back monastic life to its original purity and severe discipline
in accordanee with the Rule of S. Benet, and to infuse the
spirit of monasticism into the whole of the English Chureh.
When, after sundry vicissitudcs, Dunstan came to power
shortly aiter Eadgar’s accession, the reforms sadly wanted

¹ See Smith and Oheetharn, Diei. of Christ. Antiquitics3 and Hook, Chureh
Dietionary, in voce. ⁴

² Alterthumer der Angelsaehsisohen Kirehe. Dcntseh von Dr. F. H„ in
Itoni. Breslan‚1847. When writing‚Ihad not the English ed. at my disposal.

³ This is not the place ior further investigatione of the matter. Ι refer
to Lingard, pp. 64, 70, and 7²·

4 Monostieon Anglicanum, I, p. xiii.

⁵ See infra, Oh. Π of this Iutroduetion, sub I.

⁶ See Sehriier, Die Prosabearbenungea, pp, xiii-xviii3 inira, p. xxxiv.

 

