xxxviii Parare oa snoonron narrans. [r. '

δ. Parte of a word—initial letters, mostly—to have been
taken as ‘paving’ letters, and written separately aoeordingly.
= For the ease of o, I refer the student to the text passim.
For β, Ι would reniind him of the fact that unless this
assumption be right, the frequent ooeurrenee of a single gloss-
letter over a Latin word, amidst a number of non-paved
Latin words, cannot be explained. Of the cases under γ and ὃ
some instanoes should he adduced t-oaotol, erefor, rheae, ooo,
bat, which must he read respectively as [a] sntol, [e] sefer
(ma) [d] reno (of. note to 69. 12), [a] ⁹6a, eto, whereas in
lr alperto (sanctorum) the ease would seem to lie the other way
about.

All this tends to make it tolerably certain that Wanley’s
supposition is correct, however many diffioulties we may find
in onr way. In the MS. the gloss-letters are always found
over the Latin words sometimes by the side of the A.-S.
gloss (either before or after it), sometimes under it, or even
over it. To print thern in exaetly the sanie place was not
feasible, as that would have taken np too naueh space. I have
therefore had to make shift, and to print them in the same
line with the A.-S. glossas: this was at onoe praetioal, and in
aeeordanoe with the prinoiple followed throughout in this
edition, that whatever must he held to belong originally to
the Latin text, whether written hythe Latin soribe or by the
last glossator, is put in the line of the lemmata, whereas all
that partakes of the nature of the gloss—whetherA.-S., Latin,
or ‘paving' letters—has been put in the line assigned to the
glossarial renderings.

V. reanarooaeaorsna Tnxr. CnonnFonns. ‘Maeo-
eaarflr.' Evrnnnor erran Lirin Trxr. Enemsn
Sonans. Erearsn Inranorrons.

ᾖ 1. Tan language of the present text will be considered in
this chapter in its most striking peorrliarities. ln all essentials‚
I think, we shall find it a doeument of the later periods of
Anglo-Saxon. External oritieism cannot be called in to bear

 

