lvi e-nrnnnnnsis. [v. '

ho find 'ohan hhe only wrioer who does speah of ‘ohe nalure of
hhe sound-Poeimann, l.l.——is of 'ohe sume opinion. Il is
ourious 'uhab so fni· us my insbnnoes go, ‘ohe older periods
presenh nhis inser-bion only between 1 and l, ln or n, noh before
p and tl, as in modern Souoh German. Here stein and walle
become² disin and ⁶}stle shore 11 is only such words us erzislen
which would beoorne eamden Now in German this §frome
has run inho ‘ohe sound ee, (ehyrnologioully) schol: In modern
English an original ob has often also become ‘se' (ie hhe
pala'nal sibilnnh), as in odadun from sendo. In b 31, I have
shabed than hhe spelling sennen, ebe, does noh presens a ease
of monophhhonging. This mnsn be now furhher explained.

§od If hbe abore view of the e-epennhesis be aoeep'oed,
we need nob be surprised bo find this ο wrihhen so eom-
parnhively rarely. Even in Anglo-Snxon himes we mny sefely
assume pronunoinhion ho have been in nduanoe of spelling,
so ‘uhab when hhe former began ho change, hhe labben followed
only benheihrely, and nob always oonsisbenhly. Suppose 1rhene--
fore, ohan the sound—ehange, under eerhnin eondihions, of s ho
80:8¹ were prebhy general, ib is quine possible 'uhab in ohe
mujoriby of oases io should yeb be wrih'uen 8, espeoielly sinoe
'she differenee bebween bhe 'unio is nob so very grean. Now hhe
ola before palahnl vowels would easily become εἰμ’ (of. §d
60-63); and owing 'no hhe presence of hhe e, in would
furhher dwindle down lo sy' (τέ).

If io be objeobed ohan Ι here gire a pronunciabion ho bhe
ο, whioh was denied ib in 'ohe dl} oihed, Ι rnusb einphnbioall
sbabe thal ‘nhis is owing ho hhe influence of lshe 13. Thau e
shop should be slurred over sooner lenirem tuo collibriensis
hhan thal ab hhe beginning of n syllable (ri-ee) a ly should
develop a sibilanh, no one will oure 'oo deny,I hhink. Anobher
possibilihy muso here be disposed of. Could slr hane developed
inho ἑ bhrough ohe inhermedia‘ee stage ef sy? (πε-111111 1111-

¹ Ι now find cereno (ensbellum) in ilie Norhliunrbrinu Gospel of S. Mnblhew,
21 2

² By lc 111 the reeh of this seeliou Ι denole ohe guhhurel voioeless stop, and
by ,ς’ the perlata] sibilant.
³ See Mod. Lnnguage Notos, ns quoted 111 ξ 52.

 

